README.md, before:

# finder
Repo for a project for University. WyeWorks is the client, students implement it.

## Table of Contents

* [Requirements](#requirements)
* [Setup](#setup)
* [Linting](#linting)
* [Tests](#tests)
* [Coverage](#coverage)
* [CI](#ci)
* [Deployment](#deployment)
* [API Endpoint Documentation](#api-endpoint-documentation)

## Requirements

Project presentation, which includes functional and non-functional requirements, can be found [here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1N6uZvcd5Qhbu57ZmuHU9vGIsIKtV7Cw7cg0wIBEHyiU/edit#slide=id.p).

## Setup

### Homebrew & dependencies

Homebrew can be used for installing packages and system dependencies locally.
Instructions can be found [here](https://brew.sh/).

_Note_: Homebrew instructions above are for macOS.
It can also be used for Linux following [these instructions](https://docs.brew.sh/Homebrew-on-Linux).
For Windows, there are a few alternatives like [Ninite](https://ninite.com/) or [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/).

### Postgres

Postgres will be used as the relational database.
Install it using Homebrew by running:

```
$ brew install postgresql
```

### Ruby

This project needs `ruby` to be installed.
The right version of Ruby is stored in the `.ruby-version` file on the `finder/api` folder.
Currently, this application uses Ruby `v3.2.2`.

To manage different versions of `ruby`, different `ruby` version managers can be used:
- [chruby](https://github.com/postmodern/chruby)
- [rbenv](https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv)
- [rvm](https://rvm.io/)

Please follow their instructions on how to install them, and how to install the `ruby`
version required by the app.

### Gems

Install gems for the rails app:

```
$ cd finder/api
$ bundle install
```

### Rails

Install the rails version used on the `Gemfile.lock`:

```
$ sudo gem install rails -v VER.SI.ON
```

Currently, this application uses Rails `v7.0.7.2`.

### Frontend

React (`v18`) and Tailwind are used for the Frontend application, all together within a Next.js framework (`v13`).

Make sure to have the latest `npm` version (`v10`).
Then run:

```
$ cd finder/client
$ npm install
$ npm run build
```

Replace values from `.env.local.example` file with the correct ones.
For example, for running the stack locally, the following configuration can be used:

```
RAILS_API_URL=http://0.0.0.0:3000
NEXT_PUBLIC_RAILS_API_URL=http://127.0.0.1:3000
NEXTAUTH_SECRET=sd;fkjsfda;pjh
NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3333
```

Then rename the file to `.env.local`.

### Database

Setup local db and populate it with data:

```
$ cd finder/api
$ bundle exec rails db:setup
```

This last command does: `db:create db:schema:load db:seed`.
Last one, `db:seed` is the one that populates the database will `subjects` and `careers` data from a seed file.

Another option would be to run:

```
$ cd finder/api
$ bundle exec rails db:create db:migrate db:seed
```

### Start App Locally

Run `api` (BE) and `client` (FE) separately.
Since both Rails and Next.js use `3000` as the default port number, one of them had to be moved to another one.
Backend uses the port `3000`, and frontend the `3333`.

```
$ cd finder/api
$ bundle exec rails s
```

```
$ cd finder/client
$ npm run dev
```

Open the browser and navigate to `localhost:3333`.
Congratulations, you have successfully set up your machine for development!

## Linting

`rubocop` is used in the Rails application for static code analysis:

```
$ cd finder/api
$ rubocop
```

`ESLint` for the Next.js application:

```
$ cd finder/client
$ npm run lint
```

_Note_: this last one runs automatically with a pre-commit hook.

## Tests

Backend testing with `RSpec`. Frontend with `Jest` and `React Testing Library`.

```
$ cd finder/api
$ bundle exec rspec
```

```
$ cd finder/client
$ npm run test
```

## Coverage

Rails application uses `simplecov` gem for generating coverage from the `rspec` tests.
After running those tests, an `html` file gets generated and can be accessed from the local browser on:
`file:///{path_to_application}/finder/api/coverage/index.html`

Frontend coverage `html` file can be generated by running:

```
$ cd finder/client
$ npm run coverage
```
A new `coverage` folder within the `client` one will be generated, containing the `html` file:
`file:///{path_to_application}/finder/client/coverage/Icov-report/index.html`

## CI

Github actions for the two separate applications are configured in `.github/workflows/`.
`/next.yml` runs the Jest tests. `/rails.yml` runs rubocop and RSpec tests.

## Deployment

Frontend application is deployed using [Vercel](https://vercel.com/).
Backend using [Render](https://render.com/).

`finder` has two separate environments: Production and QA.

* [Production BE](https://finder-backend-prod.onrender.com/)
* [Production FE](https://finder-tau.vercel.app/)
* [QA BE](https://finder-backend-qa.onrender.com/)
* [QA FE](https://finder-git-develop-frodo2412.vercel.app/)

## API Endpoint Documentation

All BE endpoints are detailed [here]() (Work in progress...)

Commit message:

seed task: group and session added

README.md, after:

# finder
Repo for a project for University. WyeWorks is the client, students implement it.

## Table of Contents

* [Requirements](#requirements)
* [Setup](#setup)
* [Linting](#linting)
* [Tests](#tests)
* [Coverage](#coverage)
* [CI](#ci)
* [Deployment](#deployment)
* [API Endpoint Documentation](#api-endpoint-documentation)

## Requirements

Project presentation, which includes functional and non-functional requirements, can be found [here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1N6uZvcd5Qhbu57ZmuHU9vGIsIKtV7Cw7cg0wIBEHyiU/edit#slide=id.p).

## Setup

### Homebrew & dependencies

Homebrew can be used for installing packages and system dependencies locally.
Instructions can be found [here](https://brew.sh/).

_Note_: Homebrew instructions above are for macOS.
It can also be used for Linux following [these instructions](https://docs.brew.sh/Homebrew-on-Linux).
For Windows, there are a few alternatives like [Ninite](https://ninite.com/) or [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/).

### Postgres

Postgres will be used as the relational database.
Install it using Homebrew by running:

```
$ brew install postgresql
```

### Ruby

This project needs `ruby` to be installed.
The right version of Ruby is stored in the `.ruby-version` file on the `finder/api` folder.
Currently, this application uses Ruby `v3.2.2`.

To manage different versions of `ruby`, different `ruby` version managers can be used:
- [chruby](https://github.com/postmodern/chruby)
- [rbenv](https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv)
- [rvm](https://rvm.io/)

Please follow their instructions on how to install them, and how to install the `ruby`
version required by the app.

### Gems

Install gems for the rails app:

```
$ cd finder/api
$ bundle install
```

### Rails

Install the rails version used on the `Gemfile.lock`:

```
$ sudo gem install rails -v VER.SI.ON
```

Currently, this application uses Rails `v7.0.7.2`.

### Frontend

React (`v18`) and Tailwind are used for the Frontend application, all together within a Next.js framework (`v13`).

Make sure to have the latest `npm` version (`v10`).
Then run:

```
$ cd finder/client
$ npm install
$ npm run build
```

Replace values from `.env.local.example` file with the correct ones.
For example, for running the stack locally, the following configuration can be used:

```
RAILS_API_URL=http://0.0.0.0:3000
NEXT_PUBLIC_RAILS_API_URL=http://127.0.0.1:3000
NEXTAUTH_SECRET=sd;fkjsfda;pjh
NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3333
```

Then rename the file to `.env.local`.

### Database

Setup local db and populate it with data:

```
$ cd finder/api
$ bundle exec rails db:setup
```

This last command does: `db:create db:schema:load db:seed`.
Last one, `db:seed` is the one that populates the database will `subjects` and `careers` data from a seed file.

Another option would be to run:

```
$ cd finder/api
$ bundle exec rails db:create db:migrate db:seed
```

`Users`, `groups`, and test study `sessions` can also be created with the following commands:

```
$ cd finder/api
$ bundle exec rake db:seed:resources
```

### Start App Locally

Run `api` (BE) and `client` (FE) separately.
Since both Rails and Next.js use `3000` as the default port number, one of them had to be moved to another one.
Backend uses the port `3000`, and frontend the `3333`.

```
$ cd finder/api
$ bundle exec rails s
```

```
$ cd finder/client
$ npm run dev
```

Open the browser and navigate to `localhost:3333`.
Congratulations, you have successfully set up your machine for development!

## Linting

`rubocop` is used in the Rails application for static code analysis:

```
$ cd finder/api
$ rubocop
```

`ESLint` for the Next.js application:

```
$ cd finder/client
$ npm run lint
```

_Note_: this last one runs automatically with a pre-commit hook.

## Tests

Backend testing with `RSpec`. Frontend with `Jest` and `React Testing Library`.

```
$ cd finder/api
$ bundle exec rspec
```

```
$ cd finder/client
$ npm run test
```

## Coverage

Rails application uses `simplecov` gem for generating coverage from the `rspec` tests.
After running those tests, an `html` file gets generated and can be accessed from the local browser on:
`file:///{path_to_application}/finder/api/coverage/index.html`

Frontend coverage `html` file can be generated by running:

```
$ cd finder/client
$ npm run coverage
```
A new `coverage` folder within the `client` one will be generated, containing the `html` file:
`file:///{path_to_application}/finder/client/coverage/Icov-report/index.html`

## CI

Github actions for the two separate applications are configured in `.github/workflows/`.
`/next.yml` runs the Jest tests. `/rails.yml` runs rubocop and RSpec tests.

## Deployment

Frontend application is deployed using [Vercel](https://vercel.com/).
Backend using [Render](https://render.com/).

`finder` has two separate environments: Production and QA.

* [Production BE](https://finder-backend-prod.onrender.com/)
* [Production FE](https://finder-tau.vercel.app/)
* [QA BE](https://finder-backend-qa.onrender.com/)
* [QA FE](https://finder-git-develop-frodo2412.vercel.app/)

## API Endpoint Documentation

All BE endpoints are detailed [here]() (Work in progress...)
